Document downloading real-time sources (#77)
canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs: docs/how-to/download-real-time-sources.rst

> How to Download Real-Time Ubuntu Kernel Source Code

Reviewer: Hi @benjamin051000 , we use sentence case for headings.
https://docs.ubuntu.com/styleguide/en/#headings

```suggestion
How to download Real-time Ubuntu kernel source code
```

===================================================

> The source code for Ubuntu's Real-Time kernel is available for download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source code for Ubuntu's real-time kernel is available for download.
```

In this context real-time isn't a 'proper noun', e.g. when we say "Real-time Ubuntu". so we don't capitalize R.

The process depends on the release of Ubuntu you are using.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: LTS Releases (22.04, 24.04, etc.)

>         **1. Enable Ubuntu Pro**

Reviewer: hey @benjamin051000 , we try to avoid over-emphasis in our docs.
Bolding each numbered step is a bit of an overkill :)

Also it would be cleaner to use proper numbered lists.

        LTS Releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.

>         See https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/ for information about Ubuntu Pro.

Author: What's an appropriate way to include this link? It causes a spelling CI fail.

Reviewer: There's no pretty way to handle this unfortunately.
The spellcheck checks the link text so in this format the link text includes 'https' which is "not a word".
The best practice would be to use a descriptive link text with the URL.
Such as below.

```suggestion
        See the `Ubuntu Pro documentation <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/>`_ for more information.
```

>         **1. Enable Ubuntu Pro**
> 
>         LTS Releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.
> 
>         See https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/ for information about Ubuntu Pro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. Enable Ubuntu Pro

           LTS Releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.

           See the `Ubuntu Pro documentation <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/>`_ for more information.
```

>         **2. Enable access to the Real-time Kernel**
> 
>         Enable access with the following command:
> 
>         .. code-block:: shell
> 
>             sudo pro enable realtime-kernel --access-only
>         
> 
>         If you additionally want to install the real-time kernel to this system, remove the ``--access-only`` flag:
> 
>         .. code-block:: shell
> 
>             sudo pro enable realtime-kernel
> 
>         You can verify the realtime-kernel is activated with ``sudo pro status``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        2. Enable access to the real-time kernel

           Enable access with the following command:

           .. code-block:: shell

               sudo pro enable realtime-kernel --access-only
        
           Additionally, if you want to install the real-time kernel to this system, remove the ``--access-only`` flag:

           .. code-block:: shell

               sudo pro enable realtime-kernel

           You can verify the realtime-kernel is activated by running ``sudo pro status``.
```

>         .. NOTE I don't think sudo pro status will tell you if you used the access-only flag or not.

Reviewer: hey @benjamin051000 , maybe remove this unless this is a to-do you want to KIV for future.
Otherwise a PR comment would be better here.

Author: I removed it. Also, what does KIV mean? :D @AnneCYH

Reviewer: sorry, keep in view :) as in something you may want to keep on your radar for future improvements.

>         **3. Enable downloading source packages with apt**
> 
>         apt is used to download the real-time kernel source code. We need to enable :spellexception:`apt's` ability to download source packages (``deb-src``) from its archives.
> 
>         We can enable this by editing ``/etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu-realtime-kernel.sources``. Use this command to do the work for you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        3. Enable downloading source packages with apt.

           We need to enable ``apt`` to download real-time kernel source packages (``deb-src``) from its archives.

           To do so, add the ``deb-src`` token to :file:`/etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu-realtime-kernel.sources` by running:
```

I would avoid having additional spelling exceptions unless necessary and try to restructure the sentence if it makes sense.

        .. code-block:: shell
            
            sudo sed -i 's/^Types: deb$/Types: deb deb-src/' /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu-realtime-kernel.sources

>         **4. Download the Real-Time Kernel Source Code**
> 
>         First, apt needs to be refreshed to index newly-packaged repositories:
> 
>         .. code-block:: shell
> 
>             sudo apt update
>             
>         apt can now see the source code packages. Run the following commands to download them:
> 
>         .. code-block:: shell
> 
>             sudo apt install dpkg-dev
>             sudo apt-get source --only-source linux-realtime
> 
>         .. tip:: 
> 
>             Ensure you have enough disk space: The downloaded and extracted packages take almost 2GB of storage.
> 
>         At this point, the unpacked source files are in your current directory!
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

        4. Download the real-time kernel source code.

           First, refresh apt to index newly-packaged repositories:

           .. code-block:: shell

               sudo apt update
            
           Then run the following commands to download them:

           .. code-block:: shell

               sudo apt install dpkg-dev
               sudo apt-get source --only-source linux-realtime

           .. tip:: 

               Ensure you have enough disk space; the downloaded and extracted packages take almost 2GB of storage.

           At this point, the unpacked source files are in your current directory.
```

    .. tab-item:: Interim Releases (24.10, etc.)

>         **1. Enable downloading source packages with apt**

Author: So, this entire tab is basically a copy/paste of steps from the first tab, with like one line change.

Perhaps we could invert the organization, so we have several headings with tab groups that you switch between. Instead of the current look, it would be something like:

```rst
1. Enable downloading source packages with apt
==============================================

<Tabs for each one>

2. Download source code
=======================

<Tabs for each one>

```

and we could use the synced tabs so it switches them all automatically.

Would this be a better layout than the current one? Let me know what you all think.

Reviewer: hey @benjamin051000 , for easier maintenance, the 'sub-headings' approach would be better. Meaning your alternative layout described here.

And for each step both tabs (LTS and non-LTS) should be included even if specific tabs are not applicable or unchanged; reduces ambguity.

        **4. Download the Real-Time Kernel Source Code**

        First, apt needs to be refreshed to index newly-packaged repositories:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo apt update
            
        apt can now see the source code packages. Run the following commands to download them:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo apt install dpkg-dev
            sudo apt-get source --only-source linux-realtime

        .. tip:: 

            Ensure you have enough disk space: The downloaded and extracted packages take almost 2GB of storage.

        At this point, the unpacked source files are in your current directory!

    .. tab-item:: Interim Releases (24.10, etc.)

        **1. Enable downloading source packages with apt**

        apt is used to download the real-time kernel source code. We need to enable :spellexception:`apt's` ability to download source packages (``deb-src``) from its archives.

        We can enable this by editing ``/etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources``. Use this command to do the work for you:

        .. code-block:: shell
            

>             sudo sed -i 's/^Types: deb$/Types: deb deb-src/' /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources

Author: This will enable `deb-src` in _all_ repos in that file (on a fresh install, there are two, the ubuntu archive and ubuntu security). Is that acceptable, or should it only be enabled for one? If the latter, which one?

Reviewer: For the other kernel docs when we want to download the source packages, typically we add `deb-src` only to the archives repos; not security.

Reviewer: Also do check the format for the sources file in those Ubuntu releases.
Some just need to be uncommented out:

```
#deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/
```

Author: In the updated one, I changed the sed expression to only add `deb-src` to the archive repos.

Author: > Also do check the format for the sources file in those Ubuntu releases. Some just need to be uncommented out:
> 
> ```
> #deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/
> ```

Hmm, I didn't see that on my machine (Noble + Ubuntu Pro) or on a VM running Oracular. Where did you see that?

How to download Real-time Ubuntu kernel source code
===================================================

The source code for Ubuntu's real-time kernel is available for download.
The following guide will show you how to download it for your system's release of Ubuntu.
The process depends on the release of Ubuntu you are using.

Enable access to the real-time Ubuntu kernel
---------------------------------------------

.. tab-set::
    :sync-group: release

    .. tab-item:: LTS releases (22.04, 24.04, etc.)
        :sync: lts

        .. note::
            LTS releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.

>             See the `Ubuntu Pro documentation <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/>`_ for more information.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this point to the particular how-to?
https://documentation.ubuntu.com/real-time/en/latest/how-to/enable-real-time-ubuntu/

        If you've already enabled the real-time kernel, you don't need to do anything in this step.
        You can verify the ``realtime-kernel`` service is activated with ``sudo pro status``.

        Otherwise, enable access to the real-time kernel source packages with the following command:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo pro enable realtime-kernel --access-only

    .. tab-item:: Interim releases (24.10, etc.)
        :sync: interim
        
        The real-time kernel source is freely available in the 
        `universe repository <https://packages.ubuntu.com/oracular/linux-realtime>`_ for interim releases. 
        No actions are required for this step!
    

Enable downloading source packages with apt
--------------------------------------------

> apt is used to download the real-time kernel source. We need to enable the source repositories (``deb-src``) to allow ``apt`` to download real-time kernel source packages from its archives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
APT is used to download the real-time kernel source. We need to enable the source repositories (``deb-src``) to allow ``apt`` to download real-time kernel source packages from its archives.
```
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/APT_(software)

.. tab-set::
    :sync-group: release

>     .. tab-item:: 22.04 LTS and older
>         :sync: lts
> 
>         Open the ``/etc/apt/sources.list`` file in a text editor (requires elevated permissions) and :spellexception:`uncomment` (delete the leading ``#``) the line which includes ``deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ <release> main``. 
> 
>         For example, for Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish), only :spellexception:`uncomment` line number 4:

Reviewer 2: 22.04 was the first RT Ubuntu release. There is nothing older.
```suggestion
    .. tab-item:: 22.04 LTS
        :sync: lts

        Open the ``/etc/apt/sources.list`` file in a text editor (requires elevated permissions) and :spellexception:`uncomment` (delete the leading ``#``) the line which includes ``deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ <release> main``. 
```
IMO repeating `Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish)` doesn't feel necessary here. Too many mentions of the same thing just confuses the reader.

        .. code-block:: debsources
           :emphasize-lines: 4
           :linenos:

           # See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
           # newer versions of the distribution.
           deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse
           deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse

           deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
           # deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse

        .. caution::
            Be sure to :spellexception:`uncomment` only the line which includes ``main`` after the release code-name.

    .. tab-item:: 24.04 LTS and newer
        :sync: lts

        Use the following command to add ``deb-src`` to the :file:`ubuntu-realtime-kernel.sources` file:

        .. code-block:: shell
            

>             sudo sed -i '2s/^Types: deb$/Types: deb deb-src/' /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu-realtime-kernel.sources

Reviewer 2: Why using sed to add the deb-src but not for uncommenting that line for 22.04? 

I suggest not using sed at all and simply telling what needs be added with an example. This makes it easier to understand what is being done and to revert it.

How to download Real-time Ubuntu kernel source code
===================================================

The source code for Ubuntu's real-time kernel is available for download.
The following guide will show you how to download it for your system's release of Ubuntu.
The process depends on the release of Ubuntu you are using.

Enable access to the real-time Ubuntu kernel
---------------------------------------------

.. tab-set::
    :sync-group: release

>     .. tab-item:: LTS releases (22.04, 24.04, etc.)

Reviewer 3: Readthedocs seems to sync the right-most tab with the `lts` name. Can you swap the 22.04 and 24.04 tab order so 24.04 is the default synced tab?

            See the `Ubuntu Pro documentation <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/>`_ for more information.

        If you've already enabled the real-time kernel, you don't need to do anything in this step.
        You can verify the ``realtime-kernel`` service is activated with ``sudo pro status``.

        Otherwise, enable access to the real-time kernel source packages with the following command:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo pro enable realtime-kernel --access-only

    .. tab-item:: Interim releases (24.10, etc.)
        :sync: interim
        
        The real-time kernel source is freely available in the 
        `universe repository <https://packages.ubuntu.com/oracular/linux-realtime>`_ for interim releases. 
        No actions are required for this step!
    

Enable downloading source packages with apt
--------------------------------------------

apt is used to download the real-time kernel source. We need to enable the source repositories (``deb-src``) to allow ``apt`` to download real-time kernel source packages from its archives.

.. tab-set::
    :sync-group: release

    .. tab-item:: 22.04 LTS and older
        :sync: lts

>         In older LTS versions of Ubuntu, open the ``/etc/apt/sources.list`` file in a text editor (requires elevated permissions).
> 
>         Then, :spellexception:`uncomment` (delete the leading ``#``) the line which includes ``deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main``. 
>         For other releases, ``jammy`` will match the code-name for your release.
> 
>         For example, the file looks like this for 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Open the ``/etc/apt/sources.list`` file in a text editor (requires elevated permissions) and :spellexception:`uncomment` (delete the leading ``#``) the line which includes ``deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ <release> main``. 

        For example, for Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish), only :spellexception:`uncomment` line number 4:
```

Remove the "In older LTS versions of Ubuntu" part because the tabs are meant to handle this distinction.

        .. code-block:: debsources

>             # See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
>             # newer versions of the distribution.
>             deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse
>             # deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse
>             # ^^^^^ Uncomment the line above! ^^^^^
> 
>             deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
>             # deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
>             # ^^^^^ Leave this one (and all others underneath) alone. ^^^^^
> 
>             # ...
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        .. code-block:: debsources
           :emphasize-lines: 4
           :linenos:

           # See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
           # newer versions of the distribution.
           deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse
           deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse

           deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
           # deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
```

Adding "emphasize-lines" helps to draw attention to the actual lines that need to be edited.

We don't encourage use of inline comments in our style guide.

Author: Aha! This is exactly the solution I was looking for. Awesome, thanks.

How to download Real-time Ubuntu kernel source code
===================================================

The source code for Ubuntu's real-time kernel is available for download.

> The process depends on the release of Ubuntu you are using.

Reviewer: I think somewhere in this doc we should mention this is for downloading the source code for the Ubuntu version installed on your system.

> 1. Enable access to the real-time Ubuntu kernel.

Reviewer: hi @benjamin051000 , since you're moved to the tab-within-steps approach, i suggest making this headings instead.
The order of instructions can be seen from the right navigation and makes it easy to skip to specific steps if this isn't the user's first time going through this.

E.g. they may have already enabled RTU kernel, and set up the apt sources repos but just need to remember how to download the kernel source.
```suggestion
Enable access to the real-time Ubuntu kernel
--------------------------------------------
```

Author: Okay, that makes sense and I agree.

.. tab-set::
    :sync-group: release

    .. tab-item:: LTS releases (22.04, 24.04, etc.)
        :sync: lts

        .. note::

>             LTS Releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            LTS releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.
```

"Releases" isn't a proper noun.

            See the `Ubuntu Pro documentation <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/>`_ for more information.

        Enable access to the real-time kernel feature with the following command:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo pro enable realtime-kernel --access-only

>         

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

remove extra blank line.

        If you additionally want to install the real-time kernel to this system, remove the ``--access-only`` flag:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo pro enable realtime-kernel

        You can verify the realtime-kernel is activated with ``sudo pro status``.

>         .. NOTE I don't think sudo pro status will tell you if you used the access-only flag or not.

Reviewer: was this line meant to be kept?

    .. tab-item:: Interim releases (24.10, etc.)
        :sync: interim
        
        The real-time kernel source is freely available in the 
        `universe repository <https://packages.ubuntu.com/oracular/linux-realtime>`_ for interim releases. 
        No actions are required for this step!
    

> 
> 2. Enable downloading source packages with apt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable downloading source packages with apt
-------------------------------------------
```
```suggestion

2. Enable downloading source packages with apt.
```

    :sync-group: release

    .. tab-item:: 24.04 LTS and newer
        :sync: lts

        Use the following command to add ``deb-src`` to the :file:`ubuntu-realtime-kernel.sources` file:

        .. code-block:: shell
            
            sudo sed -i '2s/^Types: deb$/Types: deb deb-src/' /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu-realtime-kernel.sources

    .. tab-item:: 22.04 LTS and older
        :sync: lts

        In older LTS versions of Ubuntu, open the ``/etc/apt/sources.list`` file in a text editor (requires elevated permissions).

        Then, uncomment (delete the leading ``#``) the line which includes ``deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main``. 
        For other releases, ``jammy`` will match the codename for your release.

        For example, the file looks like this for 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish):

        .. code-block:: debsources

            # See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
            # newer versions of the distribution.
            deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse
            # deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy main restricted universe multiverse

>             # ^^^^^ Uncomment the line above! ^^^^^

Author: I don't love this approach, but a `sed` expression will be a little complicated, which I don't love either, and I'm not sure the best way to convey exactly which line to change. Any suggestions, or is this fine?

Author: The `sed` expression will have to parse something like `lsb_release --codename` and pipe it into `awk` to extract the codename, not pretty.

            deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
            # deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ jammy-updates main restricted universe multiverse

>             # ^^^^^ Leave this one (and all others underneath) alone. ^^^^^

Author: Same here, see above

How to Download Real-Time Ubuntu Kernel Source Code
===================================================

The source code for Ubuntu's Real-Time kernel is available for download.
The process depends on the release of Ubuntu you are using.

=====
Setup
=====

> .. TODO these tab names are too long, shorten them

Reviewer 2: The release names are redundant (see suggestion in another comment). But maybe we can avoid listing them altogether and refer to https://documentation.ubuntu.com/real-time/en/latest/reference/releases/

Author: I committed your suggested change. I like the idea to include that link, but that page doesn't appear to mention interim releases (oracular/plucky).

Author: I made #78 to discuss this issue separately from this PR. For now I think I'll leave the link out unless we decide later to put it in this document.

> .. TODO consider using synced tabs instead: https://sphinx-design.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tabs.html#synchronised-tabs

Reviewer 2: I guess this is similar to tab groups, used for example here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/blob/8fd192601c483b8637bafa33c72986d4cda950b7/docs/how-to/uc-image-creation.rst?plain=1#L35

Author: Yeah, looks like we have two extensions (`sphinx_tabs` and `sphinx-design`) with overlapping features.

Author: @AnneCYH does it matter which we use?

Reviewer: hi @benjamin051000 , either one works. There are some potential issues with PDF if you use sphinx_tabs but for our case either one can be used. We don't have a preference or 'recommended option' as far as the TA team goes.

   This would allow for more distinct sections :shrug:

.. tab-set::

>     .. tab-item:: LTS Release (24.04 Noble Numbat, 22.04 Jammy Jellyfish, 20.04 Focal Fossa, etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    .. tab-item:: LTS Release (22.04, 24.04, etc.)
```

        Enable Ubuntu Pro

        LTS Releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.

        Follow the following tutorial (TODO link) to ensure you have Ubuntu pro enabled.

        ----------------------------------------
        #. Enable access to the Real-time Kernel 
        ----------------------------------------

        Enable access with the following command:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo pro enable realtime-kernel --access-only
        

        If you additionally want to install the real-time kernel to this system, remove the ``--access-only`` flag:

        .. code-block:: shell

            sudo pro enable realtime-kernel

        You can verify the realtime-kernel is activated with `sudo pro status`.

        ----------------------------------------------

>         #. Enable downloading source packages with apt

Reviewer 2: These headers are causing build errors:
```

/home/docs/checkouts/readthedocs.org/user_builds/canonical-real-time-ubuntu-documentation/checkouts/77/docs/how-to/download-real-time-sources.rst:26: CRITICAL: Unexpected section title or transition.

----------------------------------------
/home/docs/checkouts/readthedocs.org/user_builds/canonical-real-time-ubuntu-documentation/checkouts/77/docs/how-to/download-real-time-sources.rst:28: CRITICAL: Unexpected section title.

#. Enable access to the Real-time Kernel
----------------------------------------
/home/docs/checkouts/readthedocs.org/user_builds/canonical-real-time-ubuntu-documentation/checkouts/77/docs/how-to/download-real-time-sources.rst:45: CRITICAL: Unexpected section title or transition.

----------------------------------------------
/home/docs/checkouts/readthedocs.org/user_builds/canonical-real-time-ubuntu-documentation/checkouts/77/docs/how-to/download-real-time-sources.rst:47: CRITICAL: Unexpected section title.

#. Enable downloading source packages with apt
```

You can refer to the following for a syntax cheat sheet: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/bb1cade43182ef4ca5856d1b12253d8997af5674/docs/doc-cheat-sheet.rst 
You could also use markdown.

@AnneCYH we should probably add back the ReST cheat sheet since there are existing docs using rst.

Author: Yeah, I can't figure out how to use headings inside the `tab-group` directive. I guess it isn't possible. For now I'll just bold those lines and we can figure out exactly what kind of formatting we want later. Do you know of any examples where headers are nested beneath other elements like the `tab-group`/`tab-item`?

        ----------------------------------------------

>         apt is used to download the real-time kernel source code. We need to enable :spellexception:`apt's` ability to download source packages from its archives.

Author: How do we feel about this spelling exception?

How to download Real-time Ubuntu kernel source code
===================================================

The source code for Ubuntu's real-time kernel is available for download.
The process depends on the release of Ubuntu you are using.

> #. Enable access to the real-time Ubuntu kernel.
> 
>     .. tab-set::
>         :sync-group: release
> 
>         .. tab-item:: LTS releases (22.04, 24.04, etc.)
>             :sync: lts
> 
>             .. note::
>                 LTS Releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.
>                 See the `Ubuntu Pro documentation <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/>`_ for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Enable access to the real-time Ubuntu kernel.

   .. tab-set::
       :sync-group: release

       .. tab-item:: LTS releases (22.04, 24.04, etc.)
           :sync: lts

           .. note::
               LTS Releases of Ubuntu require Ubuntu Pro to download their respective real-time kernel source code.
               See the `Ubuntu Pro documentation <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/>`_ for more information.
```

Reviewer: hey @benjamin051000 , the whole section seems to be rendered as a block comment because of the additional indent under the numbered list.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/24d55716-0498-439d-91cf-ce1f34203bfa)

Author: fixed.

            Enable access to the real-time kernel feature with the following command:

            .. code-block:: shell

                sudo pro enable realtime-kernel --access-only
            

            If you additionally want to install the real-time kernel to this system, remove the ``--access-only`` flag:

            .. code-block:: shell

                sudo pro enable realtime-kernel

>             You can verify the realtime-kernel is activated with ``sudo pro status``.

Author: Is this worth including? It's kind of irrelevant and is documented elsewhere.

Reviewer: In theory no. Setting things up can be 'decoupled' from this doc. You can focus on the actual downloading portion and just indicate as a Prerequisite that you should have enabled Pro with realtime-kernel and link to Ubuntu Pro docs (or any other relevant page in RTU docs).

            .. NOTE I don't think sudo pro status will tell you if you used the access-only flag or not.

        .. tab-item:: Interim releases (24.10, etc.)
            :sync: interim
            
            The real-time kernel source is freely available in the 
            `universe repository <https://packages.ubuntu.com/oracular/linux-realtime>`_ for interim releases. 
            No actions are required for this step!
        

#. Enable downloading source packages with apt.

    apt is used to download the real-time kernel source. We need to enable the source repositories (``deb-src``) to allow ``apt`` to download real-time kernel source packages from its archives.

    .. tab-set::
        :sync-group: release

>         .. tab-item:: LTS Releases (22.04, 24.04, etc.)

Reviewer 3: You'll need to split out 22.04 into its own tab. Releases older than 24.04 use the older format for apt sources files. In this case, the only such release supported by realtime is 22.04. You'll need to uncomment the deb-src line in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu-realtime-kernel.list to enable the source packages.

Author: Ooh, good catch. Thanks!

Author: Okay, I've added a section now.
